# Written-Report-Personal-Credit-Default-Discrimination-Model-Based-on-Super-Learner-Ensemble
My project was on a paper where a default discrimination model is implemented in the context of credit risk assessment.
Credit risk is the possibility that a customer will not be able to pay his loan over a specific period. The model developed in this paper is a new method that use the ensemble method approach to build a super learner using different types of models. By selecting only the models that have the best performance to build the base classifier library according to the dataset the model is being trained on. The process to build a Super learner is divided into 3 steps.
 Building a classifier Library where the single models or other ensemble models are combined to have a wide variety of algorithms.  Because all models are not the best for a particular problem or dataset, having different type of predictive algorithm ensure diversity in the final model.
Calculating the Total Classification Loss of the Candidate Base Classifier 
Each classifier in the model is then trained and evaluated using the ten-step cross validation method. The dataset is divided into 10 parts, where nine parts are used for training the model and one part is used to test it. This process repeat itself 10 times. After obtaining 10 different set of prediction the total classification loss is calculated by measuring how much the 10 last prediction, we obtained differ from the 10 original predictions created earlier. 
Select the best classifier in the base Library by given them different weights. 
Here a selective model approach is used where classifier in the base library that have a smaller total loss get larger weights and the ones that have bigger total loss get smaller weights. If the weight value of a classifier is 0, that classifier is not considered when building the final Super learner model. 
Finally, the selected classifiers are fitted on the entire dataset. Their best weights are used to build the final ensemble model. 
The super learner implemented in the paper performed well on different datasets, although is wasn’t always the number one it ranked first or second most of the time. From this I can conclude that the super learner ensemble model implemented is one of the best models if not the best model that financial institution can used in credit risk assessment.  The stakeholder that will be affected by a system build using this model are, financial institution, borrowers, and credit analyst. I can infer that for financial institution this model will be able to reduce loss from bad debts and increase their profits. For borrowers these mean that they will be a more accurate assessment of their credit worthiness. For credit analyst they might be a change in the tools or the methods they used to access a potential borrower credit risk. Even though these are great advantages the paper focused only on how to improve the performance accuracy of the model. Nothing was done to see if there is potential bias in the model or in the algorithm. Additionally having a complex model like a super learner that is a black box predictive model makes it hard for the stakeholders to understand how the system came up with it predictive decision. Those problem are critical because they may affect the financial life of many people. As guidance the system needs to be regularly evaluated and tested for biases. The decision of the system needs to be evaluated by an expert in credit risk assessment before making a final decision about a potential borrower. People interacting with the system needs to be trained to understand how the system works and know the risk associated with using these type of AI system 
